you guys can't handle this you guys  can't handle somebody who can actually  be a social you know what i am i'm a  boss  can you handle a boss or do you treat  yours like [ __ ] and talk [ __ ] about your  boss behind their back 24 [ __ ] seven  like friends  holy [ __ ] yeah [ __ ] have a nice day  while you are full of it but you can't  hear me say the word that represents  what you're for it's called projection  get therapy i've studied it i've got it  i've got social social workers and  psychologists and all the  yeah i'm allowed to have a passionate  opinion okay you're allowed to have a  nice day try it but you're not actually  having a nice day are you guys this is a  morning day this is what i do in private  okay i think wow i really like this song  i really appreciate this person how can  i get them allocated resources what are  you doing how many homeless people are  you feeding i can tell you your [ __ ]  names and faces i'm feeding them what  are you doing  what the [ __ ] are you doing today  nothing  the same thing you've been doing for 20  [ __ ] years who am i talking to i'm  talking to whoever's offended right now  yeah  that's who i'm talking to  guess who i'm not talking to everyone  who realizes i can say whatever i want  because it's a production for  entertainment purposes only get over it  now i forget the song just pick a song  listen to a song you like and figure out  why you like that song and not another  song get therapy or ruin your life and  live a miserable room stop trying to  figure out who's the bad guy okay i'm  the bad guy for not forgiving my dad uh  you're the bad guy for not apologizing  to somebody that you heard start there i  love you to life you love me the death  you want to [ __ ] lock me up because  you don't want to get help guys i seek  out therapy i sleep well i eat very well  i write beautiful music i rate comedy  and i have friends around the world who  are celebrities isn't that ironic that  some people are actually bad and they  look good and they're free and some  people are actually good and you think  they're bad because you don't get  therapy  and all you need is rehab  and you deserve it in a safe loving way  it doesn't take away your frame  freedom dreams dreams  and then understand i'm sober and you're  not you're confused you can't speak  clearly because you hate people who love  you  have you ever tried that you thought the  reason you can't speak kaylee's because  you don't love yourself and others how  well do you speak hmm not very well you  sound stupid when you talk i don't  i'm i'm the one who tries to get you to  think outside the box and you want to  put me in the mail you want to put me in  the box with a man guys stop abusing  people now okay this is not abuse this  is for entertainment purposes only if  you do not like it for youtube video you  do not have to watch it who's who's who  who needs help  i don't i need people to stop hurting  people so they can stop hurting me guys  he thought theory is scary with some was  advised to go hurt people no it was a it  was a juxtapositional entertainment  purposes [ __ ] only paradoxical  campaign of the got milk ad campaign  okay that's the ground no fast man good  to me okay i don't want you guys to hurt  anybody i want everybody to get along  can we get along you be nice or do you  want people to suffer i don't want  anyone to suffer guys i'm really willing  to suffer for you i'm willing to suffer  for you i'm going to show you my no  makeup so you can make fun of me just so  you might listen to me guys be nice okay  you know what's scary you know what's  scarier than dairy the heart that you  have that wants to hurt people who hurt  you guys hurt people hurt people why  don't you just forgive yourself and try  to love people sing a song go to work be  nice and if you can't be nice say  something true that matters and then say  listen i'm sorry i'm sorry if that hurt  your feelings but i think you're  important and so is everybody else  [Music]  this is a potentially depressing subject  but i'm not going to talk about it in a  depressing manner let's talk about this  with some verve and tenacity  as much as i can muster on this friday  night  victoria bc canada i got a message from  crazy cow man  it's not an insult that's the name he  uses on youtube crazy cow man he may  have some new comments below this video  and he told me very matter-of-factly  that he is planning to commit suicide  and before you jump in and say  seek professional health isn't that just  like the ethical homily of our times  isn't that the fig leaf of post-modern  morality in 2018 oh you have a problem  seek professional  oh you're coming to me for help no no no  i'm not going to tell you to [ __ ] off  i'm not going to tell you i'm not  addressed no care i'm going to say seek  professional help and the subtext is  whatever your problem is i don't want it  to be my real no before you jump in and  say seek professional help let's just  note he already sought professional help  he already got the maximum amount of  help that a professional could give him  he actually checked himself into a  psychiatric hospital he engaged in  counseling therapy and ultimately even  ssri antidepressant drug therapy even  though he'd seen the criticism of this  the presentation of scientific facts  about this on my channel he was aware  was very unlikely to help him but as a  last resort he even tried that and he  reports the only effect he noticed from  the use of prozac  was sexual dysfunction  anyway uh he's looking ahead to suicide  in the near future he is planning on it  and he has sought professional help  i'm going to start this video not by  answering his plea for help or advice  but by addressing that homily itself  going around telling people  seek professional help  um  if somebody in your life comes to you  wanting to talk about a personal  or psychological problem  and it may seem like a silly way to put  it but let's face it personal problems  can never be disentangled from  psychological problems if you have a  problem at work  you know to some extent it's going to  involve your psychological perception of  the problem it's going to have all your  feelings your thoughts and assumptions  and so on um  you have a problem with your girlfriend  with your boyfriend um but with your  career with your education with all  these things of course there's a  psychological element i think the worst  thing you can do  friend to friend co-worker to co-worker  talking to your relative your cousin  somebody you've known for many years the  worst thing you can do  is uh recuse yourself  the worst thing you can do is say oh no  no  i don't have a university degree  in psychology i don't have  credentials in psychiatry i'm not a  licensed therapist  therefore you should quote unquote  seek professional help if you've known  someone for 15 years  you have advantages in talking to them  about their personal problems their  psychological problems any of their  problems you have advantages  that a therapist will never be able to  catch up with in a series of 45 minute  sessions  okay  just you know your ability  to hear their problem in the context of  their past problems  in the context of their past life your  ability to challenge their assumptions  their memories um  they may be lying to you they may be  lying to themselves they may be so upset  that they're misconstruing things in  their own life  while sincerely trying to be honest  trying to be honest with you trying to  be asking themselves if you've known  someone for 15 years you can say no no  wait that didn't happen first you guys  moved to another city then you broke up  right like that didn't this happen first  then that happened you know  if somebody says to you something in a  personal conversation somebody you've  known for years and you just stop and  say wait are you really telling me  that's what carol said like that doesn't  sound like slang carol said can you show  me the email and they get out their  phone and show you the email and then  you look at the email it's like oh you  see you you misremembered this or you  read too much into this you  misinterpreted it  that kind of process  is never going to happen with a  therapist  and  again people may not lie down on the  couch or may not sit you may not lie  down in the therapist's office  intentionally wanting to mislead their  therapist but in large part that is what  happens um most people are not capable  of giving an objective account to a  complete stranger  a professional  about what their problems are and where  they come from or even if they could it  would be so many hours and so many  months of therapy just to get a  therapist to catch up to the level of  knowledge of this person that a friend  might have after five years of  experience 15 years of experience what  have you i mean the fundamental crisis  here is that most people do not have  friends they can go to with this kind of  serious problem they don't have  co-workers and they don't have somebody  like a buddhist monk who's known them  for many years now look  buddhist monks may be the worst person  maybe the worst people you can go to if  you're contemplating suicide or dealing  with with personal and psychological  problems but in some traditional uh  communities a religious authority figure  was some someone who might have known  you since the day you were born and may  have been following the events of your  life to some extent it would have you  and might be able to provide this this  kind of counseling right  uh now what is the function of of  counseling  i think  one of the greatest misconceptions here  is the idea that the detachment and  objectivity of the therapist is  essential  and these are really terms to glorify  ignorance  and their lack of involvement is a huge  problem also  my father  had trouble telling the truth  and you know he really enjoyed lying  i would say his condition could be  described as storytellers syndrome  there's nothing he enjoyed more  than sitting down with a therapist  and presenting  a well-balanced symmetrical and pleasing  story  a story  that had all the elements of  well-structured fiction  because it only had a very weak and  tangential relationship to the truth  and i know for a fact you know my father  and i we basically stopped talking for  10 years during those 10 years we had a  few emails back and forth i know that he  sat down and talked to therapists  uh or possibly psychoanalysts or  psychiatrists you know i don't know the  particular tell but he got professional  help and he talked about his  relationship with me  right  but the therapist the professional  never talked to me right  the therapist the professional  never actually read the email  from me  right  the therapist would only hear my father  talking about his feelings  about the email he received from me  and let me tell you my father like a lot  of people maybe he's an extreme example  maybe he has this in common with a lot  of people my father was not capable of  telling the truth not even if he  wanted to he could not tell you the  truth about something that touched  his ego  uh  not even necessarily some that made him  vulnerable but he couldn't tell the  truth about something that that impacted  his sense of grandiosity  to be honest  he wouldn't have been capable of telling  the truth if he wanted to and he may not  have wanted to that may not be what he  enjoyed and then from the therapist  perspective what is this process very  very briefly you have to remember the  therapists have their own biases built  into these scenarios  therapists don't particularly want to  hear  an honest but broken and incoherent  narrative  they don't really want to hear you break  down or watch you break down they'd be  much more pleased to have a seemingly  you know erudite well-spoken and  charismatic person present them with  this with this  well-fashioned story which is exactly  what my father could do  but what the therapist couldn't do  was interrogate him in return the  therapist could not would maybe this  will change the future maybe in the  future  therapists will employ  private investigators will employ  detectives to go and check if their  clients are telling them the truth or  not because there are outrageous lies  that people tell again sometimes the  best of intentions sometimes because  they're lying to themselves  and sometimes the intentions are are  darker than that sometimes people want  to fundamentally indulge their own sense  of grandiosity they may go to a  therapist just wanting to have their  their notions reinforced  but the fundamental service you can  provide with no diploma in uh  psychoanalysis or psychiatry or no  license as a licensed therapist  the fundamental service you can provide  is whatever depth of knowledge you have  of this person you know them for five  years 10 years 15 years  you can challenge  what they think they know  you can challenge the  they'll tell you what they feel  you can challenge why do you feel this  way you know  and you can explore with them how they  built up these assumptions in the  particular case maybe how they built up  these resentments or these feelings of  anger or this sense of disappointment i  mean sorry whether it's something  professional or romantic whatever the  personal problem is  if i've known you long enough that i  know what your assumptions were when you  started the job and then your sense of  disappointment now i can say to you well  yeah you say that now but at the time  this is what you told me  that's invaluable  and a therapist can't do that a  psychiatrist or a psychologist can't do  that and a psychiatrist or psychologist  also is not even just going to open up  your facebook or go back to that email  you say well wait you know what that was  back in 2014 you said that no no that's  you know  you've got it mixed up you know and  again they may not be mixing it up  intentionally but people do when they  feel strongly so guys um  what professionals can offer  above all else in 2018 professionals  offer are prescription drugs  and as we've explored recently on the  channel  the value of those prescription drugs is  shockingly low  now professionals can also offer you  know what's referred to as mirroring in  therapy they can offer to sit there with  you and sympathize with you and  empathize with you and listen to you  you know  they can offer a certain kind of  detached perspective  but what's going to be utterly lacking  are exactly all the things that an old  friend can bring to the table so if you  are someone's old friend  do not fall into this trap do not repeat  this excuse this homily what i think is  ultimately an evil cop-out presented as  a compassionate gesture do not tell  people to seek professional help you're  saying two things one  you're basically saying that this person  is crazy that they're that their  condition is so bad they need a higher  level of psychiatric care that they need  to see a professional that they need to  be institutionalized this needs to be  treated as a medical problem  right and you're also really saying your  problem is not my problem  i'm not i'm not going to listen and i'm  not going to get involved  and probably what they need is not just  someone to listen and someone to get  involved but someone to challenge them  someone to really give them a new  perspective  on problems that obviously they're  already familiar with you know from  their own perspective and yeah maybe the  best therapists can do that maybe the  best counselors can do that but uh i  don't know i'm not a great optimist i  think that is actually very very rare  that you get that out of counseling and  therapy sessions on the contrary most of  your time and energy if you go to see a  counselor or therapist psycho  psychoanalyst or psychologist or  something  just goes into trying to give them the  backstory  that a personal friend would already  have from years ago not even a close  friend maybe a co-worker i mean you know  sorry i remember going to see a  counselor or therapist of some kind with  my ex-wife before we split up before we  got divorced  and like do you know how many hours it  would take  just to get someone in that position  when you seek professional help just to  explain to them oh yeah yeah i was  living in cambodia this was the kind of  research i was doing in cambodia and the  guy was interested he was fascinated for  him this was great he was you know this  was so much better than just talking to  alcoholics about how hard it is to quit  alcohol or talking to victims of  childhood sexual abuse about how you  know devastated they are by their sexual  trauma you know for him this was  wonderful i was his favorite client i  could sit there and in a well-educated  area type way  you know use up the hours and talk about  you know philosophy and history and  politics and what i was studying and  what research i was doing we were living  did it help our problems at the marriage  absolutely not there was zero positive  outcome for us and i mean unless you're  someone who's in such a strange state of  denial that  it's liberating for you to describe to a  detached outsider what your problems are  you know certain type of characters like  that i think stereotypically especially  you know a century or two ago  someone who maybe grew up in the  christian religion it might be  liberating for them to basically have  this form of confessional communication  outside of the church  and then just to hear what they're  saying out of their own mouth when they  describe their problems because they  keep that bottled up and say oh wow  now i have a new perspective on just for  that reason but most of us especially in  2018 that's not the case  so there's the lure of prescription  drugs  uh solving your problem there's the lure  of a diagnosis  that there may be a fancy latin term in  a book that's going to categorize and  label exactly what your problem is  but  behind  the door behind the mahogany door of  professional help  the seemingly impressive edifice of  modern medical science as applied to our  personal and psychological problems  there is not a lot there  and you know  at age 39 i feel confident saying  those professionals have very very  little  to offer you  not even in contrast to a close friend  an estranged friend  uh an ex-girlfriend or ex-boyfriend or  even like a work colleague who's known  you for many years there would be  advantages in talking to any of those  types of people um over seeking  professional help so when you're in that  position when you're the friend someone  is talking to  maybe even if you're the ex-girlfriend  or ex-boyfriend which can be very  uncomfortable um i'd urge you not to  retreat behind this this well-worn  homily of of c professional now look the  problem the situation is i think i've  already foreshadowed my answer and why  it's going to be so brief i don't know  this guy i mean obviously he's sought  professional help he has exhausted what  professional help can do for him he has  told me nothing about what his problem  is what's brought him to this point why  he's so certain that he's going to  commit suicide so i'm going to answer in  the most general terms possible partly  because there's another youtuber who i'm  not going to name i'm going to call him  dave dave is not his real name  uh there was another youtuber who's  talking about suicide and talking about  his problems  and i wrote to him privately in response  to that um with the following set of  reflections many many many people  in our 21st century english-speaking  industrialized western culture many  people are what i would call  objective oriented people they're  motivated  in relation to specific objectives like  they have an objective they want to go  to medical school and become a medical  doctor  etc that this is an objective  and  their desire for that objective  resembles  the desire to live  but it is not in fact the desire to live  and it's actually quite dangerous to  confuse the two  many people i think especially  stereotypically heterosexual men  set out at any given time a number of  these objectives and the pursuit of  those objectives becomes a substitute  for  the actual enjoyment of life or actually  wanting to be alive or even actually  thinking about or philosophizing about  life  and this has advantages and  disadvantages obviously this provides a  certain kind of focus direction etc but  because of this cultural background  i think most people are going to look at  someone who's stereotypically suicidal  now dealing with two examples crazy cow  man and dave they're gonna look at  someone like that and say well  what you need  is to be passionately motivated in the  pursuit of of some objective now  this gets into the type of problem i  discuss on my channel all the time  uh  perceiving  weakness as strength  wanting something  wanting it  is not a  strength it's a weakness  and it doesn't just create emotional  vulnerability  it is  an emotional vulnerability  so  you know you want to be a medical doctor  and you want it and you want it and you  want it and  you know if you then flunk out of  medical school you can't get your  prerequisites you can't get the medical  degree this can be a tragedy that  reshapes your entire life you're  suddenly cut off from that that sense of  uh you know desire direction motivation  etc  um  but moreover most people's desires are  not that wholesome and not that finite  so the youtuber i was talking to he was  talking about being fueled by the desire  to be wealthy he specifically said to be  a millionaire  the desire to have fame and he didn't  say it explicitly but i think very much  implicitly starting with the desire to  be  adored by women you know etc and  he's trying to draw strength from that  he's trying to feel stoked up  and motivated and there's a a sense of  being powerful from wanting something so  much and even visualizing it and you  know fanning the flames of this desire  of building up your sense of desire in  your mind  and he thinks of this  as a positive motivation that overcomes  suicidal thoughts  or suicidal tendencies right  and and here's the problem  wanting  is not having  wanting  it i understand the sense where it  empirically it may  feel like strength but this actually is  weakness  it's not just that this creates sorrow  or leads to sorrow this actually is a  form of sorrow that you're misperceiving  as pleasure  because you're fantasizing about it  and because also in the same way that  extreme hunger  can make you feel strong  um the desperation to eat when you've  really gone hungry for too long um  that very desperation again it creates  the illusion of strength you know you  you you feel  you feel like you're moving faster  you're thinking faster you're you're  struggling to get food you know  as you whatever whether it's that you're  fasting or some for some reason you're  experiencing uh starvation-like  conditions  you may perceive that as strength in  fact it is weakness right  now  the actual solution uh to this problem  uh the specific problem talking about  here is not to think in terms of wanting  things i mean not to in this guy's case  he was overcoming his suicidal thoughts  or his you know his despondent sorrowful  thoughts by trying to visualize how much  he wants to be a millionaire or how much  he wants to achieve fame and these  things someone else's case maybe how  much they want to  uh become a medical doctor go to med  school or some of this and then  visualizing and thinking about it and  building up this this this feeling of  wanting  really  what i claim here is that what you're  building up is sorrow and what you're  creating is emotional bitterness not  emotional strength there is a different  approach to this which is to instead try  to cultivate detachment  and detachment is i think one of the  underrated virtues  in modern western culture believe me  it's also underrated within modern asian  buddhism  you can have detachment  about  things you want and what they mean with  that you you can regard these things in  a now  i actually i had a specific illustration  of this the difference between wanting  something powerfully and being detached  in your pursuit of it which was um you  know relationships between heterosexual  men and women  men pursuing women you know romantically  i think again  maybe the majority of men when they're  young and inexperienced  they think that the way to do this is to  build up their passion is to want  something so much to be over overcome  with emotion and desire  and then at some point they have to  mature and learn know the way to talk to  women the way to approach women the way  to even evaluate women if women are  approaching you women are the way to  evaluate the offer or think about  starting their relationship between the  relationship is from a position of of  detachment  and  so if you just think about this  detachment isn't indifference  detachment isn't  not caring  but it is certainly a situation where  you are thinking rationally  and you have some kind of separation  between that rational process  and your emotional process so that  you're able to evaluate the things  themselves  and you're able to evaluate your own  emotions your feelings about them and  you're able to evaluate even your own  process of evaluation  this is the situation we want to be in  whether you're trying to start a new  romantic relationship or whether you're  thinking your way out of you know maybe  a career dead end like you want to be a  medical doctor you can't be or you're  thinking your way out of um whatever the  impasse is in life that leads to to be  suicidal so this was an interesting  train of thought advice that came up  when i was looking at another youtuber  who'd been suicidal lately i'm referring  to here as david  um  the problem is here with crazy cow man  i suspect that he may be  in the opposite situation that his  problem isn't that he's burning with  these desires with motivation with  wanting so on  but that he feels no desire at all  that the problem is  simply because i get no description of  of what this is why it is that he he  simply wants to die which is simply that  he he has no desire  um it's not he doesn't want to become a  medical doctor he doesn't want to  achieve fame and fortune or any of these  other kind of shallow things  um  there's he doesn't want to achieve  anything intellectually or what have you  and  you know  look ultimately i respect  ultimately if you make this decision i  respect your right  to choose to die um however  with all these caveats i've mistaken i  don't know you i've never talked to you  i don't know you as well as a friend  who's known you for five years and i  recognize you've already sought  professional help and you've exhausted  what counseling can do for you  i really would recommend that you try to  engage in  one of the most basic instincts we have  from birth  and that is curiosity  if you can try to kindle your sense of  curiosity  for almost anything  if you can try experimentally to  challenge your own ignorance about  things  whether those are tidbits from history  you never understood  whether that's i'm sure there's an  example that's become an internet meme  how do magnets work  if you can go around if you can keep a  notepad if you can start noticing things  and start investigating things and start  challenging yourself and trying to  cultivate curiosity itself  i think that curiosity is the the  kindling  out of which  you know um that kind of  objective oriented motivation sparks  right  why live  i mean ultimately why live  i don't think that we live  for the satisfaction of our desires for  the pursuit of our of our desires i  don't think we even believe live for the  pursuit of happiness to use a well-worn  phrase  um  the meaning of life or the process of  finding meaning in life  ultimately at its most basic rudiments  must begin with curiosity  so  the encouragement i can give you is to  try to exercise that most childlike and  most infantile and most pure  part of your mind the part of the human  experience where for the first time  you looked at letters on a chalkboard  and didn't know what they were or you  probably wasn't on chalkboard you  probably saw a sign through a window and  and you wondered what things were and  wondered how they worked  and i i mean this sincerely it could be  anything it could be plumbing that you  never thought about before how to fix  a tap  anything whether you do it with your  hands  more than with your your brain  if you can encourage yourself  in  whether in the most childlike way or in  the most  scientifically pretentious way possible  to try to exercise your sense of  curiosity  i think that will that will not put you  back in touch with your humanity it will  not put you in touch with any kind of  profound mystery about the beauty of  human life  it will start to put you back in touch  with the material reality  of what this world is  and of what your relationship to it is  which is ultimately the relationship  of an infinitely ignorant investigator  and that is what makes day-to-day  life so dynamic and so rewarding and  what makes us want to keep living as we  get older and older  is not the pursuit of one desire after  another not one fantasy after another  building up our sense of desire  not disappointment and disillusionment  and overcoming those things and in my  opinion not social status or a sense of  wanting revenge against others or trying  to prove others wrong or something like  this you know  um  if you can get back to that  working up from the bare rudiment of  curiosity that instinct that so rarely  is even given a name  um  [Music]  i think that's a first step that i can  recommend wholeheartedly  without even knowing what the second  step might be for you  live or die  for you  the question of whether or not you can  find a meaningful life  a meaningful way to live  or a new attitude  towards living  that makes your experience of life  meaningful for you  right now  it's a life-and-death struggle so  literally and figuratively  back to the chalkboard  [Music]